So you want to try to use data more
effectively and avoid the tyranny of metrics.
So what measures should you use?
Well, a useful way to uncover what these
measures may be is using the ODIM framework.
The ODIM framework was introduced
by Larry Maccherone to help teams and
organisations pick metrics that
will drive their desired outcomes.
Here's how it works.
We start by deciding on outcomes.
Not just any outcomes—
we can do better than that.
We want clear, specific outcomes.
What we aspiring to? "On time and
on budget", for example, isn't the
best outcome as you could still do
this and deliver the wrong thing.
"Create a product people love"
is a much better outcome.
To achieve better outcomes,
we need better decisions.
Good things don't happen by chance.
To make better decisions,
we need better insights.
We need our decisions to be
based on real information.
And to have better insights,
we need to have better measures.
Effective measurement
provides better insight,
better insight leads to better decisions,
and better decisions lead to better outcomes.
Don't make the mistake of
starting with the measures.
Start on your outcomes.
Think about the decisions that you need to
make that will influence these outcomes.
Think about the insights you
need to make those decisions,
and that's how you'll arrive at the measures.